---
layout: post
title: UX London
categories: conference
author: jack_crawford
tags: conference ux london
comments: true
---

# UX London

## UX at Facebook (lookup talk name)
#### Julie Zhou - Facebook

Ship love
* Craft
* Ease of use
* Value

Is it valuable?
* Does it solve real problems?
* Is it stable?
* Do you know who you are building for?

Is it easy to use?
* Performance!
* Are the things I do most easy to use?
* Content clear & easy to understand?
* Simplify and reduce functionality (Facebook ads)

Is it well crafted?
* Beautiful?
* The people behind it cared
* Gracefully handle failures & edge cases
* Human and approchable

People hated news feed but used it _all the time_

Product brief framework
* Get everyone on the same page about what you're trying to do
* Help build consensus
* Properties
  * Value for people
  * Company impact
  * Metrics for success
  * Inventory of work
* Write a press release pretending that you launched the 
* What are the non-goals?

How do you invest in making existing products more successful?
* Data

Landscape
* What should the lanscape look like in 2 eyars if this product succeeds?
* How will people use it?
* What will the competitive landscape look like?
* Revisit 3 year plan every year

This journey 1% finished

## A Journey to Product Management
#### Des Traynor @destraynor | Intercom

How is a product managed? _not a linear process_
* Defining the product
* Defining the features
* Defining the roadmap

Your product doesn't end

Unless managed well, products:
* Hang onto featutes
* Add more features
* Don't join the dots between features

Things we need to build **as ASAP as possible**

No one ever says "Let's build a bloated piece of crap", but plenty do it

What does feature creep look like?
* It doesn't mean _a lot of things_, it means _a lot of redundant things_

What does a well rounded product look like?
* Everyone uses all of the features

Success is a really bad teacher in product design, it makes you feel as though you can't do anything wrong

Great products are cohesive, everything is linked to everything

Card based design provides cohesion, for a trade off.

Use the same UI elements across the product

**TOOLKIT <3**

The customer rarely buys what the company think it's selling them

Weather apps that focus on what the user _wants_:
* Darksky
* UmbrellaToday
* WhatToWear

Being the _biggest_ product isn't anything to be proud of

Opportunity = Importance + (Importance - Satisfaction)

Above all, keep your product alive

## Make your mark like Tony Stark
#### John V Willshire @willsh | Smithery

> Prototype as parent, not child | _Louise Valentine_

Prototyping is a temporal pursuit

We work at the point where order becomes chaos

All design processes share the arrow of time

**Users** want it to be _right_, **clients** want it to be _right now_

people: % population x effect

things: % output x detail

Make space for the geriatric super soldiers

## Thinking in Enaction
#### Name?

> Writing does not merely record or communicate, but also transforms our thoughts | _Prof Alan Dix_

Three forms of learning
* Enactive: You can only learn how to ride a bike by doing it (Using app)
* Iconic: Reading a manual, learning how it works (Mockups)
* Symbolic: Writing, formulae (Coding)

Summary
* Tools are catalysts for our creativity
* Behaviour is the essence of our medium
* Everyone can apply enactive 

## Well designed
#### John _

Where do great new products come from?
* Establish vision
* Drive consensus
* Ship product

Product/Market fit
* Broad technological / political infrastructure
* Social precedence
* Opportunity for engagement

Behavioural Insight
* Value
* Identity
* Provocation

Product Management
* Engineering
* Marketing
* Design

Qualitative user research
* Go with a focus, not an agenda
* GO AND MEET PEOPLE

Insight statements
* Provocative statements about human behaviour, framed as universal truths
* e.g.
  * Students think they have an idea of what employers want in a candidate, but they are often wrong
  * Recruiters make snap judgments, directly impacting a candidate's changes of success

Go make something

## Sweating the UX Details
### Stephen Anderson

Medium didn't just build a product, they built an experience

The details matter - a month on hyperlinks!

Product vs experience

The things that get in the way of high quality
* Individual beliefs
* Processes
* Cultural values

Why focus on quality?
* Pride - anything worth doing is worth doing well
* Idealism - what kind of workd do you want to live in?
* Trust - in expertise of your team
* Usability - lower support costs
* User trust - and perceived reliability
* Affect - how does someone feel?
* Conversion - what do people actually do?
* Maturity - within the space we play
* Context - and tolerance for friction
* To create _awesome users_ - Kathy Sierra

Change blindness
* To see an object change, it is necessary to attend to it
* Blackout between makes it hard to see the change
* Back to back easier

Typography
* Neubible
* Higher cognitive focus
* More efficient mental processes
* Stronger sense of clarity

What is the maturity of the space we're competing in?

Every year the bar for good enough gets higher and higher

What's dangerous about processes?
* Scope creep
* ^ vs quality execution
* Quality _is_ in the scope
* There's a difference between _perfection_ and _excellence_ 
*  Nobody is going to tell you if they like donuts if all you hand them is flower and eggs
*  The whole is other than the sum of the parts
*  ^ An experience is other than the sum of the parts

Delivery vs quality

Quality is a bar, not a feature than can be scoped out

What does it mean to be a design led company?
* Not pixel perfectionism, _necessarily_
* Not design team calling the shots
* Is aligning the entire organisation around the experiential needs of customers
* If something isn't quite right, don't ship it


At our core, we are a company that values _blank_. Though we make exceptions for _blank_ when the time is right.

Most quality happens because of individuals who car

I want to work in a place that values great, well-designed experiences

## How do you think new things?
#### Chris Noessel @chrisnoessel

Stouchebag 'FML' Giles

You can't step in the same river twice

Meaning machines
* Divination
* Entertainment

Creativity

Force-fit grid / creative matrix

Stuart Giles

St you art G isles

## Taking on the bad habits that hurt design discussions
#### Adam Connor @adamconnor

Conversations can _**hurt**_

critical**thinking** == critique

* We _**react**_
* We get _**selfish**_
* We don't start from a _**common foundation**_
* We don't talk about _**strengths**_
* We don't _**focus**_
* We don't _**participate**_
* We _**problem solve**_
* We _**confuse critique**_ with review

Don't add more heat than light

Critique is an iteration driver

## My tablet is my teddy
#### Cecilia @ioedge

We don't want to adapt to the content anymore, we want the content to adapt to us

Seeing through the eyes of a child
* Intuitive

Making it intuitive
* Semantic - the meaning of a word, phrase or text
* Semiotics - using symbols to convey meaning
* Snippets - a small piece of information or news
* Patterns - recurring solutions that solve common design problems
* Templates - reusable layouts

Combine semantics and semiotics to create snippets

## The power of principles
#### Kim Goodwin @kimgoodwin

Photography
* There is **no truth**, there are **only values**
* Conscious choice about the perception I want you to have about that moment

Credit card - _they don't know me_, feels tone deaf

User experiences are _made of decisions_

Clan vs adhocracy

Get the data that **makes a difference**

Help patients (users) achieve **better outcomes**

"Your values are like fingerprints. Nobody's are the same, but you leave them all over everything you do"

Make principles aspirational

## Content in a zombie apocalypse
#### Karen Mcgrane @karenmcgrane

True separation of content from form

The future of content management systems is in their ability to capture the content in a clean presentation-independent way

We are constrained by a mental model called "container thinking"

Display types vs content types (carousel vs press release)

* Content modelling
* Shoveling

Blobs vs chunks

Content modelling
* Start with the **content types**, what are they going to be used for?
* What are the **attributes**?

## Atomic design
#### Brad Frost

What is an interface made of?

Frameworks
* One-size-fits-all
* Lookalike issues
* Bloat/unneeded stuff
* Not everything you need

Atomic design
* Atoms
* Molecules
* Organisms
* Templates
* Pages

Periodic table of the elements
 
Atoms
* Label
* Input
* Button

Molecules
* Group of label, input & button

Organisms
* Header with molecules & atoms

Template
* Layout, structure, constraints

Page
* Representative content

Pattern lab
* Ish
* Shows where the atoms/molecules are included and what they contain

Q. What's the hardest aspect of responsive web design?
A. Process/People

[stylify.me](http://stylify.me)

Interface inventory
* Document your interface
* Highlight inconsistencies

Collaboration and communicaton trump process & deliverables

When you're finished changing, you're finished.

## Design for the device ecosystem
#### Hanerino                                    

What is the job people are trying to do? How are they getting it done?

We are no longer tethered to one device

[mobile search moments](http://haner.in/mobilesearchmoments)

The Three C's
* Consistency
* Continuous
* Complimentary

All recipes website/app

The experience should transcend the device

## Our wearable future
#### Rachel Hinman

Are wearables about fashion?
* Expression & connection

1. __
2. What is the story they want to tell?
3. How might wearable technology amplify their story?

TAM - Total Available Market

## Interacting with a world of connected objects
#### Tom Coates

_everything will be connected_

Peeple

You should use the network to amplify a tool's core purpose

Enchanted objects

Vitality pill checker

String that twitches with network traffic

Interaction with tangible enchanted objects

Rather than aiming for seamlessness, aim for a world with seamfulness and beautiful seems